In the present work on the preparation of nanosized silver nanoparticles from aqueous solution of silver nitrate, we employed as reductant a mixture of hydrazine hydrate and citrate of sodium; sodium dodecyl sulphate was employed as a stabilizer. Double-distilled deionised water was used. For the synthesis of silver nanoparticles, silver nitrate solution (from 1,0 mM to 6,0 mM) and 8% (w/w) Sodium Dodecyl Sulphate (SDS) were used as a metal salt precursor and a stabilizing agent, respectively. Hydrazine hydrate solution with a concentrate ranging from 2,0 mM to 12 mM and Citrate of sodium solution (1,0 mM to 2,0 mM) were used as a reducing agents. Citrate of sodium was also used as stabilizing agent at room temperature. The transparent colourless solution was converted to the characteristic pale yellow and pale red colour, when citrate of sodium was used as stabilizing agent. To remove excess silver ions, the silver colloids were washed at least three times with deionized water under nitrogen stream. A dried powder of the nanosize silver was obtained by freeze-drying. To carry out all characterization methods and interaction of the silver nanoparticles with bacteria, the silver nanoparticle powder in the freeze-drying cuvette was resuspended in deionized water; the suspension was homogenized with a Fisher Bioblock Scientific ultrasonic cleaning container. The colourless Ag+ solution containing SDS turned pale yellow-brown in addition of hydrazine solution (Fig. 1A) and in the case of adding citrate of sodium the colour changed to pale red (Fig 1C). In the case that we do not use SDS the uncolored Ag+ solution turned pale yellow in addition of hydrazine and citrate of sodium solution at different concentrations (Fig. 1B). Ag particles prepared from 1.1 mM AgNO3 solution. Metal ion concentration and citrate of sodium solution 6.0 mM and 2.0 mM, respectively. UV–Vis absorption spectrum of silver nanoparticles prepared using a mixture of hydrazine and citrate of sodium as a reducing agent. TEM image of spherical silver nanoparticles obtained at 1.0 mM (A) and 2.0 mM (B) of citrate of sodium solution. Particle size distributions of Ag nanoparticles (prepared from 1.1 mM AgNO3 solution) and citrate of sodium solution with a concentrate ranging from 1.0 mM (A) to 2.0 mM (B). The silver sols were diluted 2-8 times with 100 íL of Mueller-Hinton broth inoculated with the tested bacteria at a concentration of 105 to 106 CFU/mL. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) was read after 24 h of incubation at 37 °C.
